this video is about 30 minutes long and
it's not easy to watch it could change
your life if you share this video with
someone else who is either using
antidepressants now or has used
antidepressants in the past or who is
considering seeking help from a
psychiatrist in the future it could
change their lives to the better very
fundamentally this is a video sharing
hard facts published and proven in the
last 20 years in the medical sciences
facts that are inconvenient for many of
us to face up to it may be that someone
you know and love and trust placed their
faith in the hands of the medical
establishment of the psychiatric
establishment and that these drugs have
changed their lives it may be very hard
for them to hear or accept the
implications of what this video is now
going to tell you there are two senior
experts in this video who devoted many
years of their lives to researching this
question and it's just our luck both of
them speak English one of them is dr.
Irving Kirsch you'll notice that the
first major peer-reviewed study he
mentions is from the Year 1998 the first
study of his own
the first meta-analysis and he worked on
this issue from 1998 to 2008 and then
from 2008 to 2018 that's a tremendous
level of devotion and dedication and as
you'll see he still to this day
publishing books writing essays and
touring the world trying to get this
message out to the general public people
like you and I'm making a relatively
insignificant effort in editing together
these few sources and trying to present
them in a form that maybe a few thousand
other people will see and duly give
consideration to
share this video it's not for my benefit
and it may not be for yours but I have
personally known people from all walks
of life from all levels of education who
believed in these drugs and there are
medical doctors at all stages of their
career young and old who still believe
widely-held assumptions from 50 years
ago what's taught in the textbooks lags
behind the leading edge but this is now
something that's proven
I like right now I can't like talk like
I usually do I tried talking to my
doctorate and I got sent up psycho tryst
and I got prescribed antidepressants and
I've been taking down since two weeks it
has a lot of side effects it's here
because one of the side effects is to
decrease anxiety and but you still get
anxiety as a side effect sometimes and
I've heard other side effects are
headaches insomnia nausea and also have
a diet and for some reason I'm
experiencing all the side effects mr.
Blunt has virtually no signs of his
original illness now the signs at the
movements of his mouth are completely
side effects of the drugs that he was on
for 20 years mr. blonde is quite
rational he understands what's going on
and if you're patient he can carry on a
very rational conversation with you the
movements that he makes with his mouth
and with his tongue he can't stop their
involuntary movements he can slow them
down by concentrating on them but as
soon as he stops concentrating on them
then they come back and are more mr.
blown also has some movements of his
diaphragm when the diaphragm contracted
then it causes him to make sounds out of
his mouth but that's all part of the
same condition if it was not for the
side effects of the drugs mr. blunt
would in all probability be able to
leave the hospital
[Music]
FTC the identity makes time must reserve
for this Bonilla to sell more about
[Music]
asset are due to skin EC sorry oppa to a
saint in Sedna are the England miss
Vista battalion suffered unknown back
avatar do to skin you see after email at
omaha's / handling for neuroleptic
entirety Tico and not a commerce awarded
today lion I received some essential for
Medina many wounds helmet cos no
electric apprehending thr do to skinny
she was held in the present when TX a
guard Marcus it is a limited forced upon
your lips occur sati in Ponte are known
for Sarah Merrell no electric evaced
nellyville' or ticker very norm so she
ate steamed SEC and Hassan own goofily
muscular appearance a man Tigers a big
file mainly so she ate some Leo but I
like nurses that are known as a leader
as I said is an interested just to mean
Sammy so to pursue the salon crafty
mostly spaceman some curvy Irma's Mary
fool Esaias Elmo Elmo's kid means to
whoever f30 here can skate for fairly
scary at Nia so they would be clearly
the monkey training percentage yet say
sasuke decay assembly Nick faded I
didn't know where to go first to talk
about my symptoms actually thought that
nothing like was wrong I have been put
on medication I went to a psychiatrist
at the hospital and I told them my
symptoms and and I got I know they got
medication prescribed I was told that he
side effects would go away
I was told that the side effect
go away within a couple of weeks so I'm
waiting for them to be over early in
February actually in 2008 an analysis of
antidepressant medications that I did
with some colleagues was published in
the medical journal PLoS Medicine I woke
up that morning to find that our study
had become the lead front-page news and
virtually all of the UK daily newspapers
two years later was still making news of
the four-page cover story in Newsweek
and two years after that this came on
television the medical community is at
war battling over the scientific
research and writings of a psychologist
named Irving Kirsch so how did this all
come about and to tell you that story I
have to go back to 1998
so we combed the literature now is not
enough to look at the placebo effect
because you know if you if you have a
cold and I give you a placebo and I
measure how you're doing a week later
you will have gotten better right it's
not a placebo effect that's just the
passage of time Natural History so just
as to measure the drug effect you need
to have a placebo control to measure the
placebo effect you have to have a
control for natural history so what
would happen if you didn't get the
placebo and so we scoured the literature
and we were looking for for trials
clinical studies in which depressed
patients had been randomized to either
get a placebo or get no treatment at all
being placed let's say on a waiting list
and getting treatment later now as it
turns out the only place we could find
data on
press patients get being given placebo
was in drug trials so that meant that we
had the drug trial data when you have
data you analyze it and what we're
looking here is change pre to post in
the drug condition and you get a
standardized mean difference different
outcome scales of about 1.5 that's a big
healthy effect and change improvement in
medical literature and a nice big
placebo response and very little
improvement much less improvement in the
no treatment condition so that means we
do have a real placebo effect it turns
out about 25 percent of the response to
the active medication you get anyway
even without doing anything you get
another 50 percent of it by giving an
inner pill a placebo
that's the placebo effect in the
treatment of depression fine great
that's what we were interested in but
now there's a surprise that leaves only
25% of the response as a true drug
effect and that seemed to both gyein and
and me to be too small for a treatment
that had been heralded as constituting a
revolution in the treatment of
depression so in the early part of the
20th century generally it was felt that
there were no there was no way of really
targeting the biological origins of
mental disorders and the treatment for
people who were considered to be mad
crazy depressed whatever was very
nonspecific it consisted of helping them
to be in a creating a structured
environment for them where there were
activities they could do where there was
work they could get involved in giving
them fresh air and exercise and and if
they were very disturbed using sedative
type drugs but those drugs were not seen
as doing anything
was related to the origins of their
problem they were seen as as sedatives
as chemical straight jackets or
restraints if you like so that was the
situation in the early 20th century and
then in the nineteen thirties and
forties various physical treatment
procedures start to be introduced into
psychiatry like insulin coma therapy for
example and then later ECT
electroconvulsive therapy now these
treatments are start to be spoken of and
represented as if they are somehow
targeting the underlying basis of a
particular mental condition so incident
coma therapy for example even though no
one knew for certain what it was doing
people speculated that it was working by
targeting the underlying basis of
schizophrenia so so it was significant
for that for that reason that
psychiatrists even though it's not the
case psychiatrists started to believe
when insulin coma therapy came in that
they had a specific treatment that
targeted the underlying biological
mechanism that produced schizophrenia
all the symptoms of schizophrenia and
the same sort of thing happens with ECT
electroconvulsive therapy is introduced
again for the treatment of schizophrenia
but it becomes more associated in the
literature anyway with the treatment of
severe depression or melancholia or
sometimes manic depression and again
even though people have no real idea how
it might be working in depression
there's this idea that somehow it's
acting on the underlying biological
mechanisms that produce depression so by
the 1950s psychiatry has gone from a
state where it really didn't believe it
was possible have any treatments that
were thought to be specifically
targeting the biological processes
underlying mental disorders to a
situation where it is believed commonly
believed that there are two treatments
that are that specifically target two of
the main
psychiatric disorders incident coma
therapy for schizophrenia and ECT for
depression or manic depression not
surprisingly turned out to be very
controversial and one of the most
serious criticisms was that our analysis
was flawed that it derived from a
minuscule group of unrepresentative
inconsistently and erroneously selected
articles what are we going to do well
what we did was try to replicate our own
meta analysis and we did that by where
are we gonna find another dataset that
doesn't overlap ours and see if we can
get similar results or not we went to
the FDA and we use the Freedom of
Information Act and we got from them all
of the data that the drug companies had
sent to them in the process of getting
approval for what at that time were the
six most widely prescribed
antidepressant medication well if you
look at the published trials you'll find
that three out of four of them show a
significant benefit of drug versus
placebo if you look at the unpublished
trials that shrinks 12% now we had the
published trials the unpublished trials
we put them all together we did the same
kind of analysis that we did before and
we get this nice healthy response on
average to get being given the
antidepressant drug and of an even
bigger response i'm lucy bow now it's
the placebo response not the SIBO effect
but we know that that counts for
relatively little the-the-the
spontaneous remission the natural
history the placebo response is now
accounted for eighty-two percent of the
response to the active drug
and the difference between drug and
approval is less than two points on the
Hamilton scale now the Hamilton scale
can you can have scores ranging from
zero to fifty three points you can get a
six point difference just by changes in
sleep patterns with no changes in any
other symptom of depression that's a
small difference and you don't have to
take my word for it because there's an
organization in England called the
National Institute of Health and
Clinical Excellence the acronym is nice
and they're very nice organization what
they do is to set treatment guidelines
for the National Health Service and in
revising their treatment guidelines they
have established a criteria for clinical
significance for saying that a drug is
not only statistically but clinically
better than a placebo and that's a three
point difference on a Hamilton
depression scale or an effect size of
0.5 and as you see that comes nowhere
close when you look at it historically
you realize that that idea first came
about in the context of treatment of a
treatment ie
insulin coma therapy that we now know
was completely useless not only useless
but highly dangerous but but certainly
no one would now defend the idea that
incident Giacomin therapy was
specifically treating schizophrenia
specifically targeting the biological
cause of schizophrenia this was a really
good day and they felt really stable and
sometimes you like really get happy like
like this yeah I will take it easy and
not let these side effects affect me too
much but it's getting better
yay I must have seemed really weird at
the start of the video but like it was
really difficult to like turn on the
camera camera but I'm still glad I did
it Wow
good good I probably feel like [ __ ]
again like in a couple of hours but
thank you it's so good
it's wishful thinking basically it's
wishful thinking that I think is
probably quite deep-seated and people
who have a medical training because
because that's what medicine aims for it
aims to find the ultimate causes of
things and um that the mechanisms which
produce symptoms and it aims to be able
to target those mechanisms in some way
well we published this second
meta-analysis in 2002 and the critics
complained that a patient's weren't
depressed enough
you see they said sure if you give
antidepressants to mildly depressed
patients or moderately depressed
patients what you're going to see is
probably a placebo effect there won't be
much difference between the drug in
effect and the SIBO effect but you know
we see severely depressed patients and
in severely depressed patients that's
where you'll see that the drug really
does make a difference well ok that's a
plausible argument what are we going to
do now well let's go back to our data
and let's see how severely depressed on
average the patients were at baseline
before being given drug or placebo as it
turned out there was only one study on
patients with moderate levels of
depression none and mild depression one
study in the early study of prozac early
true clinical trial prozac showed
absolutely no difference between drug
and placebo
there weren't any studies of patients
with severe depression all of the rest
of the studies were in patients with
very severe depression according to the
categorization used by both the American
Psychiatric Association and by nice we
did find within very severe depression
there was a relationship between drug
placebo difference its effect size and
severity of depression and at the very
extreme very extreme levels of
depression there was a small group of
studies showing patients with scores 28
or above on the Hamilton Depression
Inventory show a benefit of
antidepressants that in fact passes the
criterion for clinical significance we
had 7% who were moderately depressed 78%
who were very severely depressed and
only 15% who were very severely
depressed but at the extreme end abut
going beyond 28% they benefited in this
data set that meant that about 85
percent did not show a clinically
meaningful benefit as a function of
taking the active drug doesn't that
looks familiar and what does that
represent in terms of the distribution
of patients well now we're getting a
clinically significant benefit and about
10% of the patients when you include
some mildly and some severely depressed
patients meaning that 90% of the
patients were not showing you benefited
clinically meaningful benefit at all
and then there was the critics last
resort which is a true believer high
argument David Nutt in the UK said
antidepressants work everybody knows
they work and another critic wrote
clinical practice plus millions of
content patients can't be that wrong
well the history of medicine is replete
with treatments that have worked for
millions and that's why we don't depend
on anecdotal evidence for making
treatment decisions we do clinical
trials and we look at the data and if
you look at the data everybody gets the
same result here it's going to be now my
study with my colleagues our studies
nicest studies Turner in Canada my two
harshest critics they're my harshest
critics did two meta analyses
to show that we were wrong the
difference between drug and placebo is
small and even the FDA agrees the reason
that we do randomized trials is that
depression like many other conditions is
not predictable so it's not the case
that you know we know that you become
depressed and we know you will stay like
that for at least a year for example and
therefore if you get better before a
year's time then we can say all you know
it was the antidepressant that made you
better
depression is not like that it's a
highly variable and the heart and
fluctuates and therefore it is very
difficult to say if someone starts
feeling better whether it's due to the
weather it's due to something they've
done whether it's just what would have
happened anyway or whether it might be
due to some sort of new treatment that
they've been started on and that's why
we do trials and the trials show that
there is a very substantial placebo
response so that people feel you know a
lot better when they take a placebo do
almost as much better and there's very
little difference as they do if they
take an antidepressant the difference
between the small difference that you
see in trials between antidepressants
and placebos is probably what you might
call an active placebo effect it's the
fact that when people take an
antidepressant they're not just taking a
chalk tablet they're not taking
something that's in urge their taking an
active drug and they will notice some
more or less subtle changes from taking
that drug now most people again going
into antidepressant trials think want
the antidepressants the people who
really don't think hazard presents are
going to work for them other people who
don't go into those trials in the first
place so if you've got a trial full of
people who mostly want antidepressants
most you think they're going to be
beneficial and then they take you know
they get allocated to the antidepressant
and they get a few side effects you
a situation where they're going to be
hopeful you know particularly hopeful
that they're going to that they're going
to get better and so I think you get an
enhanced placebo effect with the active
medication in antidepressant trials and
it doesn't matter if you look at the
short-term trials or you can find
yourselves to looking at the long-term
trials and it doesn't matter whether you
look at the freshen or you look at these
same drugs for the treatment of anxiety
disorders the difference is small barber
and colleagues they did a 16-week trial
comparing sertraline to placebo and two
inside oriented brief insight oriented
psychotherapy 16-week trial is very long
for a drug trial happens to be the
length of trial of the star D trial
patients very much like the patients who
would be excluded from conventional
clinical trials many of them
economically disadvantaged high level of
comorbidity chronically depressed and
here's the part I like best
non-responders at week eight people
halfway through the trial they didn't
respond to search Raeleen they were
switched to venlafaxine good you know
when drug doesn't work to try another
non-responders in the placebo group or
switched to a different recibo that's
the part of here's what they got in the
drug group here's what they got in the
placebo group virtually no difference at
all and the same level of response that
you're getting in the star D trial and
certainly no drug effect when we did our
first meta-analysis back in 1998
guidance a Kristine and I when we first
saw those data we assumed we must have
done something wrong something is not
right here everyone knows that
antidepressants work maybe maybe we made
the mistake of including
drugs that were effective for depression
as well as drugs that weren't effective
for depression if we had done that maybe
some antidepressants are better than
others and if we're including Studies on
ineffective drugs that's going to lead
us to underestimates the potential of
antidepressants to ameliorate depression
and maybe overestimate the placebo
component of it so we went back to our
data and we look at looked at what drugs
were the patients in these studies ah
somewhere on tricyclics some were on us
as our eyes somewhere on other
antidepressants and we did mi a lo
inhibitors and things like that and we
found there were some other drugs in
there too there was some studies that
were looking at things like barbiturates
and benzodiazepine and lithium for not
for unipolar depression and thyroid
medications for people without a thyroid
disorder unipolar depressed patients and
in case after case three-quarters of the
response of the drug was duplicated by
placebo it didn't matter whether there's
a try cyclic an SSRI some other
antidepressant or even something that's
not conventionally considered an
antidepressant here are results from
meta-analyses of head-to-head
comparisons between in this case SSRI
and other antidepressants MDR eye sight
rice eye so these are all comparator
trials nope placebo controls
head-to-head comparisons response rates
they're all the same they're all the
same and there's yet another drug that
we should take into account that I don't
have up here and that is TNF teen how
many of you have heard of TNF teen very
few TNF teen is a drug that is has been
approved by French regulators and it is
marketed
in France and a number of other
countries as an antidepressant
the most common antidepressants these
days are SSRIs selective serotonin
reuptake inhibitors TNF teen is an SSR
II it's a selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitor is are supposed to do instead
of inhibiting the reuptake so that
there's more serotonin available in the
synapses it's supposed to enhance
reuptake so that there's less serotonin
available in the synapses were there any
truth to the serotonin theory of
depression and I don't know a
responsible researcher in the area that
still contends there is it's only in
marketing that you'll see that talked
about were there any truth to that
SSRIs art should not help people recover
from depression it ought to make them
depressed here's what it does in
head-to-head trials against both SSRIs
and imipramine and tricyclics so what do
you call pills the effects of which are
independent of their chemical
composition and they should be taken
with a grain of salt I didn't know where
to go first actually thought nothing was
wrong the people who are harmed by these
drugs are reaching out for help these
drugs end up hurting people who are weak
and they end up hurting strong people at
moments in their lives at times in their
lives when they're at their weakest
it's exactly when their most devastated
distracted and demoralized when they
can't take the time to get on google get
on you to get on Wikipedia and figure
out these facts lurking behind the
figures when they can't scrutinize what
their doctor or psychiatrist is telling
them and that's why I say again please
do your small part share this video
share it with someone you love share
with someone you're concerned about Cher
it so that we can help the whole world
catch up with what dr. Irving Kirsch
already knew in 1998